Alright, what's up Pussy's?
Welcome to the start of our first module of this course,
Ideation.
To start off with ideation we're going to be going over case studies.
I'm a big believer in the principle that like the best way to learn to ride a
bike
is to ride a bike. You might scrape yourself, you might get cut,
but you're going to learn better than like studying the underlying mechanics
and physics of how bikes work. It's like get on the bike and ride.
Now I think approaching building apps is a little bit different in that
you know you have to invest significantly more time and resources
into actually building and marketing and designing
an application. But what you can do instead
is take a look at examples of apps that have
succeeded. Apps that have been built quickly and made a lot of money.
So that's what we're going to do here today.
So the apps listed here, almost every single one, makes
over a million dollars per year in profit, was started
by one to three people, has received zero funding
and has been built in the past three years. Now I can
verify this because about almost half of the apps here
have been built by somebody in App Mafia and
the majority of the rest we know the founders personally.
The reason that we selected these, in addition to our
own experience with them, is because
there are a lot of apps on the App Store where you can
you know you can scroll the charts and you find apps like My Fitness Pal
or apps like you know maybe Impulse
or different apps that make millions and millions of dollars a month.
But some of the key issues with studying apps like that is
they were built 10 years ago and they've raised
tens to hundreds of millions of dollars in funding
and sure they make money and sure they may have been founded
by a couple of people but it's very common
that these case studies just aren't going to be that applicable to the people
watching this content.
And now whether you already have a successful app or you are completely new to
this space,
these are the apps that have really sort of taken over
the industry by storm over the course of the past few years.
A lot of these apps apply AI to bring new products to life
whereas others just take advantage of
other trends or other you know consumer interests.
Now a very important disclaimer here is that there are many other
app categories that we did not include here.
But these are app categories where we have domain expertise
and also will also currently
present a lot of opportunity and will continue to present a ton of opportunity
in the future.
So we're going to focus on this within the course of this course.
But
there are many other apps that are worth studying
so do your own research.
At the top of this first row
you'll see the sort of like higher order problems.
We'll get into that a little bit in some of the future lessons
and how to kind of determine what problems to work on
and how you're going to go about solving them.
But for the sake of this first video I'm going to run through some of these
apps
explain a little bit of the background on why they worked
and kind of just get the creative juices flowing.
So let's get into it. Alright, RizApp number one. First problem that we're
looking at is dating.
Why dating is so important. But Riz
is actually our first competitor for the first app that I built,
RizGPT. I was in school and I had a
friend who was using dating apps a lot. Always getting with different girls and
whatnot.
And you know, he would be like
"Dude what should I say to this girl?" in a very normal casual way.
And this was shortly after ChatGPT came out and I'm like "Man,
we could very easily build an app
to generate responses." And it kind of sprung out of curiosity.
I'm like "I wonder how good ChatGPT would do given proper prompt engineering?"
And so I started working on this app and as I'm starting to work on it
I did a little bit of market research and Riz was our number one competitor.
Riz had already launched but they weren't popular. They'd done maybe like
20,000 downloads, something like that.
But they are a great case study.
The founders have a good amount of experience
before we had jumped into the scene with RizGPT.
I actually go ahead and pull that up right now. PlugAI's the app that I built.
We had to rename from RizGPT because of a lawsuit from Riz. No bad blood there.
But we launched and we did everything
wrong that you could possibly imagine. The app was named
RizGPT-production when you downloaded it.
I had the OpenAI API keys stored in the front end. It was a complete mess.
But what RizGPT,
PlugAI and the Riz app do is they enable you to upload a screenshot
of a conversation that you're having with a girl and it'll help give you
recommendations on what to set.
And there's been some innovation over the course of the past year
in terms of what the product actually looked like. Looks like.
But it touches on the key thread which is
highlighted in a South Park episode actually. Which is like,
it's not always easy to know what to say to girls. It's actually very hard for
a high proportion of guys.
And AI in this case can help kind of augment that.
So we launched, we did some underground influencer promos that ended up ripping
.
And then we started into a bloodbath war with the Riz app.
Honestly, I think PlugAI/RizGPT
and Riz are kind of the first big players
in the new AI product
crossed with organic social media marketing
sort of strategy. I think both, so
RizGPT, we make a little bit over 300k a month right now. I think Riz is
probably somewhere in the range of four to five hundred.
But definitely worth studying these products.
So that's a little bit of a background there in terms of how we, or what this
part of the industry looks like. Okay, now we've got another relatively new app
.
T has been absolutely ripping. T is number one on the app store for a little
while.
T is a little bit distinct from a lot of apps that we're going to touch on
and that most of these are kind of single player apps. But I wanted to include
it
because I think that it highlights a very important component of
user and consumer psychology, which is key kind of plays
on this concept of FOMO to some extent.
You can even see it in their messaging. It's like they say that they're helping
women date safe. No, it's really an anonymous gossip
forum, but it's a very intelligent product decision.
So we're studying
and keep moving on. Kalei is the app that Zach and I built together.
Kalei does a little bit over three million dollars a month in revenue.
Quick background on this. AI
calorie trackers were beginning to become popular
shortly after the release and popularization of the
vision models. So like GPT vision and whatnot. This was the end of
the year. I'm going to talk about the new technology.
I'm going to talk about the new technology. I'm going to talk about the
new technology. I'm going to talk about the new technology. I'm going to talk
about the new technology.
I'm going to talk about the new technology. I'm going to talk about the new
technology.
I know that the Vision API was coming up, but I also knew that there was going
to be competition.
I'm like, "Okay, what can I do to be ahead of the curve?"
I built the entire product with no functional API.
The entire product was ready to go.
Then the moment that the API got released, I plugged in the URL.
I submitted to the App Store. Within a few days, I was approved.
I already had influencer deals lined up on contingencies.
I didn't pay anybody ahead of time.
Okay, long ramble, but what's the takeaway here?
The takeaway is that as we see these continuous advancements in AI technology,
this is an example of image analysis.
We're seeing video analysis coming to play, video generation, image generation.
We're going to see a whole new set of AI modalities
that can be applied to create experiences like never before.
Facial analysis was somewhat possible before AI Vision APIs,
but it was using more traditional ML Vision models,
which you can't get the same performance,
and it's way more expensive and difficult to build.
Now, it's as simple as plaintext English prompting.
So, study UMAX onward.
I'm going to start moving a little bit faster so that this doesn't take too
long,
but I hope you guys are kind of picking up on how these ideas come to play,
as well as how important timing is.
We got Quitter, Connor and Alex, amazing fucking App,
one of my favorite in the industry right now.
For them, it's not taking advantage of some new AI technology.
It's looking at an incredibly, incredibly important problem
that our generation faces,
and not just our generation,
that man has a whole face nowadays, which is lust and pornography.
Whether you think it's good or bad,
a lot of people think it's bad.
A lot of people jerk off and watch porn,
and they know it's bad for them, at least as individuals.
Connor and Alex recognized this.
They saw how big of a problem it was,
and they went to solve it.
They drew an inspiration from some previously successful apps,
in terms of marketing, namely like the apps that I built as well as Zek,
and then they created a completely new experience.
They took a look at apps that help people track sobriety,
and then they embedded that within a product to help quit porn.
Alcoholism has been an issue for longer than pornography has.
Therefore, there's been more innovation on the UX side of how to solve alcohol
ism
relative to how to solve pornographic addiction.
So, yeah, sweet app.
They are going to continue to rise in the rankings.
Okay, Opal, similar, very similar.
Actually, Opal may have been more of a case study for Quitter than the sobriety
tracking apps.
Nevertheless, very, very similar products,
people are addicted to jerking off, people are also addicted to their phones.
Solve that, make content, people pay.
All right, Bible chat.
Different thread here, spirituality.
We're in a meeting crisis.
People have heard this.
We're in a meeting crisis nowadays.
People are increasingly looking for ways to become more spiritual.
Bible chat helps people connect with their Christianity.
Awesome, great product.
You also see this for Muslims and Jews as well.
Astra, different thread.
Rather than religion, Astra helps people solve the spirituality, whatever they
want to find
in their life through astrology.
Also becoming increasingly popular.
This is actually built by my co-founders of RizGPT.
You see, they are Vert Ventures.
If you go back to plugAI, this was Vert Media.
We built RizGPT, plugAI together.
I went off and built UMAX.
They went off and built Astra.
All right, minutes AI, AI note taking.
I'm sure everyone's familiar with this industry.
It's one of the most popular, you know, sort of clear productivity increase
value ads from
AI.
Minutes is one example founded by a small team.
There's Turbo.
There is Otter or something and a bunch of others.
Pretty straightforward.
People don't like to pay attention during meetings or school.
They're not a very common AI homework helper.
Super simple.
Take a picture of your homework.
Nice pretty UI.
I feel like that's pretty self explanatory why it works.
It's built by Oliv Labs.
Oliv is a pretty cool company.
They've got like another AI note taker, as I mentioned, with Minutes AI.
Education category is, or success category is great.
It's like, all right, let's help you make money.
Let's help you be more successful in your career.
If you can build a product that tangibly helps people make those incremental
improvements,
it's very obvious why they would pay for it.
Social validation.
Okay, now this is a slightly different territory that we're getting into.
So generally we recommend against building social apps.
They're so much harder to build.
We'll talk more about that later in the course.
But there's an interesting subset of social companion products.
So Hunter built NGL.
NGL has done 300 million downloads, one of the most popular apps in the world.
They are a social companion app.
You can post your NGL links on your Snapchat and Instagram story to get
anonymous messages.
So rather than build a full on social platforms, like if you're here in this
course, you should
probably already know by now.
But the probability that you succeed building a full social platform is
extremely low.
I don't say that to discourage you.
Like if you want to do it, you can do it.
But I say that just so you know what you're getting yourself into.
So if you're going to build social, social companion is usually the highest
probability
of finding success.
Lock it.
Lock it enables you to share images with your friends, kind of stay up to date,
put it on
your home screen.
Cool product.
They're also one of the most popular apps in the world.
I think that they've done tens of millions, maybe like 100 million plus
downloads.
Now, LAPs.
Once again, one of these sort of like, one of these like non full fledged
social platforms,
but rather like social ex utility.
So same boat.
Take these sort of like disposable camera aesthetic, whatever images with your
friends, share them.
Cool.
All right.
That is it for case studies.
Lot of rambling.
But just wanted to give you guys a little bit of a background on how I think
through these
products.
So that you guys can refer back to this if you want throughout the rest and the
remainder
of our course.
To be honest, like even beyond us referencing these apps, whenever we are lect
uring and providing
information, you should refer back to them.
You want to start training this muscle.
When I first built RizGPT, I had like pretty much zero understanding of this
space.
The number one most valuable thing I ever did was begin to study these apps.
As it started to grow, I picked up on the fact that each time I downloaded a
successful
app, and used it, I would uncover some new sort of strategy, be it UI, be it
marketing,
be it general UX, engineering, whatever, that would add a five plus percent
increase.
For example, with RizGPT, after we downloaded a few different apps, we realized
that everyone
was using Superwall and split testing their paywalls.
That 3X target revenue as soon as we implemented it and began using a harder
paywall.
Notifications, analytics, these are all things that we did not have set up from
day one,
but when you take this course, you'll learn how to do all this.
That wraps this up.
Now we're going to go all the way down to the very bottom.
We started at a general high level overview of these apps all the way down to
the bottom
of the very, very, very fundamentals of coming up with your idea and
determining what idea
you should actually build and how these people, myself included, how we all
came up with
ours, using these sort of frameworks.
Okay, part two soon.
I want to redo that.
Okay.
That's lesson one.
I'll see you guys in lesson two.
[ Silence ]